PREDICTING STOCK PRICE VOLATILITY ON THE HOSE USING SENTIMENT ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL NEWS FROM VIETNAM INVESTMENT REVIEW

The stock market reacts to news and events, including economic indicators, corporate earnings reports, and geopolitical events such as wars or natural disasters. When positive information is released, stock prices may increase, and vice versa. Additionally, investor sentiment is significantly influenced by this news, and investor confidence can create strong price volatility in the market. Financial market information is commonly available on social media platforms, where investors and businesses use and analyze it. Investors can also easily find financial research articles analyzed based on financial reports, trading history, and trading volumes. However, another valuable source of information, such as text data in headlines or summaries of financial news, can also increase stock price volatility.

The application of machine learning to analyze financial information is a viable approach to addressing the complexity of the relationship between news and stock prices. This study aims to analyze and enhance the predictive capability of news on stock market movements using RANDOM FOREST CLASSIFIER, LOGISTIC REGRESSION CLASSIFIER, and N-GRAM MODEL. The author primarily applies sentiment analysis to calculate and present a sentiment index for the news to determine whether there is a relationship between the sentiment index and stock prices (VN Index). Text data were collected from the Vietnam Investment Review website from January 2020 to May 2024.

By combining Python libraries like BeautifulSoup with machine learning algorithms, the study introduces a novel approach by utilizing data scraped from online websites and analyzing the sentiment behind the headlines. The output is then fed into various machine learning models to predict whether stock index prices are dependent on the news.

Keywords: VN-index, sentiment analysis, stock market volatility.
